In JavaScript, an array is an object that has special properties. 

```javascript
const movies = ["The Wolf of Wall Street", "Zootopia", "Babysitting"];
```

An array is created with a pair of square brackets `[]`. Everything within the brackets makes up the array. You can store different types of elements within an array, including strings, numbers, booleans and even objects.

```javascript
const elements = ["Hello", 7, { message: "Hi mom" }, true];
```

- length property : access the size of an array via its `length` property, using the dot notation; returns 0 in case of an empty array. Eg. array.length

Each item in an array is identified by a number called its _index_ — an integer pointer that identifies an element of the array. We can think of an array as a set of boxes, each storing a specific value and associated with an index. You can access a particular element by passing its index within _square brackets_ `[]`. Using an invalid index to access a JavaScript array element returns the value `undefined`. 

## Iterating over an array 
- Types : 
	- for loop : for (let i = 0; i < movies.length; i++)
	- forEach loop : It takes as a parameter a _function_ that will be applied to each array element.myArray. Example: forEach(myElement => {                                                              // Use myElement to access each array element one by one                                                }); 
		- Here’s the previous example, rewritten with this method and a `arrow` function:  const movies = ["The Wolf of Wall Street", "Zootopia", "Babysitting"]; movies.forEach(movie => {                                                                     console.log(movie);                                                                                                          });
	- for-of loop : a special kind of loop dealing with iterable objects like arrays:                      for (const myElement of myArray) {                                                                                       // Use myElement to access each array element one by one                                                   }
		- Check out the previous example written with a `for-of` loop.:                                const movies = ["The Wolf of Wall Street", "Zootopia", "Babysitting"];                       for (const movie of movies) {                                                              console.log(movie);                                                                                                           }

## Updating Array's Content
- You add a new item to an array with the `push()` method. The new element to be added is passed as a parameter to the method. It is inserted at the end of the array. 
- To add an element at the beginning of an array, use the `unshift()` method instead of `push()`.
- You can remove the last element of an array using the `pop()` method.
- Alternatively, you can use the `splice()` method with two parameters: the first one is the index from which to begin removing, and the second one is the number of elements to remove.

## Strings
#### Recap
- A string value represents text.
- In JavaScript, a string is defined by placing text within single quotes (`'I am a string'`) or double quotes (`"I am a string"`).
- You may use special characters within a string by prefacing them with `\` (“backslash”) followed by another character. For example, use `\n` to add a line break.
- The `+` operator concatenates (combines or adds) two or more strings.
---

- Length of a string : `.length` to obtain the length of a string
- Changing string case : You may convert a string’s text to _lowercase_ by calling the `toLowerCase()` method. Alternatively, you may do the same with `toUpperCase()` to convert a string to uppercase.
- It’s important to understand that once created, a string value never changes: strings are _immutable_ in JavaScript.
- Comparing two strings : You may compare two strings with the `===` operator. The operation returns a boolean value: `true` if the strings are equal, `false` if not. String comparison is case sensitive. Pay attention to lower and uppercase letters!
- You may think of a string as an array of characters. Each character is identified by a number called an index, just as it does for an array.

### Manipulating Strings
The JavaScript method `Array.from()` can be used to turn a string into an array. This array can further be traversed with the `forEach()` method. Here’s an example where the string letters are displayed one by one:

```javascript
const name = "Sarah";
const nameArray = Array.from(name);
nameArray.forEach(letter => {
  console.log(letter);
});
```

- `split()` method : This method takes as a parameter the _separator_ and returns an array containing the _parts_. 
```javascript
const monthList = "Jan,Feb,Mar,Apr,May,Jun,Jul,Aug,Sep,Oct,Nov,Dec";
const months = monthList.split(","); // `,` is the separator in monthList.
console.log(months[0]);  // "Jan"
console.log(months[11]); // "Dec"
//months is the array containing substrings at distinct array indices
```


Looking for particular values inside a string is a common task.
The `indexOf()` takes as a parameter the searched-for value. If that value is found inside the string, it returns the index of the first occurrence of the value. Otherwise, it returns -1.
```javascript
const song = "Honky Tonk Women";
console.log(song.indexOf("onk")); // 1
console.log(song.indexOf("Onk")); // -1 because of case mismatch
```
When searching for a value at the beginning or end of a string, you may also use the `startsWith()` and `endsWith()` methods. Both return either `true` or `false`, depending on whether the value is found or not.
```javascript
const song = "Honky Tonk Women";
console.log(song.startsWith("Honk")); // true
console.log(song.startsWith("honk")); // false
console.log(song.startsWith("Tonk")); // false
console.log(song.endsWith("men")); // true
console.log(song.endsWith("Men")); // false
console.log(song.endsWith("Tonk")); // false
```

