A browser is a software you use to visit web pages and use web applications. The modern ones include a set of developer tools to ease the task of developing for the web.

As you probably know, the World Wide Web (or Web for short) is an ever-expanding information space built on top of the Internet. Web resources are accessible via their address, called their URL, and can contain hyperlinks to other resources. Together, all these interlinked resources form a huge mesh analogous to a spider web.
Documents suitable for the Web are called web pages. They are grouped together on websites and visited through a browser.

There are three main technologies for creating web pages: HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.

## HTML
HTML, short for HyperText Markup Language, is the document format of web pages. An HTML document is made of text and structural elements called _tags_. Tags are used to describe the page content: paragraphs, headings, hyperlinks, images, etc.

## CSS
CSS, or Cascading Style Sheets, is a language used to alter the presentation of web pages.
CSS uses _selectors_ to declare which HTML elements a style applies to. Many selecting strategies are possible, most notably:
- All elements of a given tag name.
- Elements matching a given class (selector syntax: `.myClass`).
- The element matches a given and unique identifier (selector syntax: `#MyId`).

## JavaScript 
JavaScript can interact with an HTML document to provide dynamic interactivity: responses to user actions on the page, dynamic styling, animations, etc. It is the only programming language understood by all web browsers.

A JavaScript file, usually stored in a `.js` file, is loaded by a web page with a `<script>` tag.
` <script src="path/to/file.js"></script> `

