# Modify an Existing Element
- HTML Content : The `innerHTML` property can be used to change the content of an element within the DOM.
- Text Content : Use the `textContent` property to modify the text content of a DOM element.
- Attributes : The `setAttribute()` method sets the value of an attribute of an element.
- Classes : You can use the `classList` property to add or remove classes from a DOM element

# Adding a New Element
Adding a new element to a web page can be broken into three steps:

- Create the new element
- Set element properties
- Insert the new element in the DOM

## Creating the element
You’d create an element using the `createElement()` method. This method is used on the document object and takes the tag of the new element as a parameter. This method also returns the element created as an object (here stored in a variable called `pythonElement`).

```javascript
// Create an li element
const pythonElement = document.createElement("li");
```

## Setting element properties
Once the element is created and stored in a variable, you can add some detail to it (ID, class, text content, etc.) by using the aforementioned DOM properties. In the example, the element ID becomes `"python"` and its text content becomes `"Python"`.

```javascript
pythonElement.id = "python";          // Define element ID 
pythonElement.textContent = "Python"; // Define its text content
```

## Inserting the element into the DOM
There are several techniques to insert a new node in the DOM. The most common is to call the `appendChild()` method on the element that will be the future parent of the new node. The new node is added to the end of the list of child nodes of that parent. In our example, the new item is added as a new child of the `<ul>` tag identified by `languages`, after all the other children of this tag.

```javascript
// Insert the new element into the DOM
document.getElementById("languages").appendChild(pythonElement);
```

# Variations on Adding elements
## Adding a textual node
Instead of using the `textContent` property to define the new element’s textual content, you can create a textual node with the `createTextNode()` method. This node can then be added to the new element with `appendChild()`.

```javascript
const rubyElement = document.createElement("li"); // Create an "li" element
rubyElement.id = "ruby"; // Define element ID
rubyElement.appendChild(document.createTextNode("Ruby")); // Define its text content
document.getElementById("languages").appendChild(rubyElement); // Insert the new element into the DOM
```

## Adding a node before another one
Sometimes, inserting a new node at the end of its parent’s children list is not ideal. In that case, you can use the `insertBefore()` method. Called on the future parent, this method takes as parameters the new node and the node before which the new one will be inserted.

## Determining the exact position of the new node
The `insertAdjacentHTML()` method defines the position of inserted elements very precisely. You can call it on an existing element and pass it the position and a string of HTML characters that represent the new content to be added. The new content’s position should be either:
- `beforebegin`: before the existing element
- `afterbegin`: inside the existing element, before its first child
- `beforeend`: inside the existing element, after its last child
- `afterend`: after the existing element

# Replacing or Removing nodes
## Replacing a node
A DOM element can be replaced with the `replaceChild()` method. This replaces a child node of the current element with another node. The new node and existing node replaced are passed as parameters (in that order).  
```javascript
const lispElement = document.createElement("li"); // Create an li element
lispElement.id = "lisp";          // Define its ID
lispElement.textContent = "Lisp"; // Define its text content

// Replace the element identified by "perl" with the new element
document.getElementById("languages").replaceChild(lispElement, document.getElementById("perl"));
```

## Removing a node
You can also delete a node using the `removeChild()` method. It takes the node that you want to delete as a parameter.

```javascript
//Remove the element with the "lisp" id
document.getElementById("languages").removeChild(document.getElementById("lisp"));
```

# Styling Elements
JavaScript not only lets you interact with your web page structure but also changes the style of the elements. 
## Style property
DOM elements are equipped with a property called `style`, which returns an object representing the HTML element’s `style` attribute. This object’s properties match up to its CSS properties. By defining these properties with JavaScript, you’re actually modifying the element’s style.

```javascript
const paragraphElement = document.querySelector("p");

paragraphElement.style.color = "red";

paragraphElement.style.margin = "50px";
```
## Compound CSS properties
Some CSS properties have compound names, meaning they’re composed of two words (like background-color). To interact with these properties via JavaScript, you remove the hyphen and capitalize the first letter of the words following it.

```javascript
paragraphElement.style.fontFamily = "Arial";
paragraphElement.style.backgroundColor = "black";
```

## Limits of the `style` property
The `style` property used in this code only represents the `style` attribute of the element. Using this property, you cannot access style declarations defined elsewhere, for example in a CSS stylesheet.

## Access element styles
A better solution for accessing element styles is to use a function called `getComputedStyle()`. This function takes a DOM node as a parameter and returns an object that represents the element’s style. You can then see the different CSS properties of the object.

# DOM Manipulations & Performance

Let's see few drawbacks of manipulation the DOM using JavaScript and how we can overcome this problem.

Updating the DOM through JavaScript code causes the browser to compute the new page display. Frequent manipulations can lead to slowdowns and sub-par performance. As such, you should keep DOM access and update operations to a minimum.

Creating and setting element properties before they’re inserted into the DOM is a good way to preserve performance.



