## History of JavaScript

JavaScript is first and foremost the programming language of the web. It was invented in 1995 by Brendan Eich, who at the time worked for Netscape, which created the first popular web browser (Firefox’s ancestor).

A _browser_ is the software you use to visit webpages and use web applications. JavaScript should not be confused with Java, another language invented at the same time! Both share a similar syntax, but their use cases and “philosophies” are very different. The idea behind JavaScript was to create a simple language to make web pages dynamic and interactive, since back then, pages were very simple.

Web builders started gradually enriching their pages by adding JavaScript code. For this code to work, the recipient web browser (the software used to surf the web) had to process JavaScript. This language has been progressively integrated into browsers, and now all browsers are able to handle it!

Because of the explosion of the Web and the advent of web 2.0 (based on rich, interactive pages), JavaScript has become increasingly popular. Web browser designers have optimized the execution speed of JavaScript, which means it’s now a very fast language. This led to the emergence of the Node.js platform, which allows you to create JavaScript applications outside the browser. Thanks to software called MongoDB, JavaScript has even entered the database world (software whose role is to store information).

Finally, the popularity of smartphones and tablets with different systems (iOS, Android, Windows Phone) has led to the emergence of so-called cross-platform development tools. They allow you to write a single mobile application that’s compatible with these systems. These tools are almost always based on JavaScript!

## Programming
- console.log() : display a piece of information in the console a zone displaying textual information available in most JavaScript environments, such as browsers

 A _value_ is a piece of information used in a computer program. Values exist in different forms called types. The _type_ of a value determines its role and operations available to it. Every computer language has its own types and values. Let’s look at two of the types available in JavaScript:
-  Number 
- String : A _string_ in JavaScript is text surrounded by quotation marks, or a pair of single quotes. Use whichever way, just make sure to use only one kind in one program. 
	- To include special characters in a string, use the `\` character (backslash) before the character. For example, type `\n` to add a new line within a string: `"This is\na multiline string"`.
	- The `+` operator has a special meaning when applied to two string values. It will join the two chains together, and this operation is called a concatenation. For example, `"Hel" + "lo"` produces the result `"Hello"`.


Program Structure :
- Statement : Each instruction inside a program is called a _statement_. A statement in JavaScript usually ends with a _semicolon_ (albeit it’s not strictly mandatory). Your program will be made up of a series of these statements.
- Execution Flow : When a program is executed, the statements in it are “read” one after another. It’s the combination of these individual results that produce the final result of the program.
- Comment : You can prevent certain lines from executing by putting a double slash before them: `//`. This turns the code into a comment. You can also write comments by typing `/* */` around the code you want commented out.

