# Creating Asynchronous HTTP Requests in JavaScript
Since synchronous requests block the calling process until their result is received, only asynchronous HTTP requests should be used when building a web application. However, asynchronous code can be tricky to write and to understand, since statements won’t be executed in a linear and sequential fashion like with synchronous operations.

## The `fetch()` method
The best way to send asynchronous HTTP requests in JavaScript is to use the `fetch()` method. Here is its general usage form.

```
// Sends an asynchronous HTTP request to the target url

fetch(url)

  .then(() => {

    // Code called in the future when the request ends successfully

  })

  .catch(() => {

    // Code called in the future when an errors occurs during the request

  });
```

==NOTE== : You might encounter JavaScript code that uses an object called `XMLHttpRequest` to perform HTTP operations. This is a more ancient technique now replaced by `fetch()`.

## Under the hood: promises

When the `fetch()` method is executed, it immediately returns a promise, which is a wrapper for an operation whose result might be available in the future. A _promise_ is in one of these states:

- _pending_: initial state, not _fulfilled_ or _rejected_
- _fulfilled_: meaning that the operation completed successfully
- _rejected_: meaning that the operation failed

A JavaScript promise is an object with `then()` and `catch()` methods. `then()` is called when the promise is _fulfilled_. It takes the operation result as a parameter. On the contrary, `catch()` is called when the promise is _rejected_.

What’s great about promises is that they can be chained together. Here’s how you could perform a series of asynchronous operations in JavaScript.

```
getData()
.then(a => filterData(a)) // Called asynchronously when getData() returns  
.then(b => processData(b)) // Called asynchronously when filterData() returns  
.then(c => displayData(c)) // Called asynchronously when processData() returns

```

## Example: Retrieving a text file

Let’s start with a very basic example: displaying the content of a text file located on a web server. You can access the file from [here](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/bpesquet/thejsway/master/resources/languages.txt) and it contains the following content:

> C++;Java;C#;PHP

Here’s how to do this in JavaScript using `fetch()`.
```
fetch(  "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/bpesquet/thejsway/master/resources/languages.txt")  
.then(response => response.text()) // Access and return response's text content  
.then(text => {    
	console.log(text); // Display file content in the console  });
```

## Dealing with errors
By nature, external HTTP requests are subject to errors: network failure, missing resources, etc. Handling these errors is done by adding a `catch()` method to the `fetch()` call. A basic level of error handling is to log the error message in the console.
```
fetch("http://non-existent-resource")  
.catch(err => {    
console.error(err.message);  
});
```

# Handling JSON Data
## JSON and JavaScript
The JavaScript language offers native support for the JSON format:

- The `JSON.parse()` method transforms a JSON string into a JavaScript object.
- On the contrary, the `JSON.stringify()` method transforms a JavaScript object into a JSON string.

```
// Define a JavaScript object

const plane = {

  manufacturer: "Airbus",

  model: "A320"

};

console.log(plane); // Display the object

  

const planeText = JSON.stringify(plane);

console.log(planeText); // Display the object as a JSON string

  

console.log(JSON.parse(planeText)); // Display the object
```

## Example: Retrieving JSON content

For example, the following JSON file `movies.json` contains information about some movies. This file defines an array containing three objects.
```
[  
{    
	"title": "The Wolf of Wall Street",    
	"year": "2013",    
	"author": "Martin Scorsese"  
},  
{   
	"title": "Inside Out",    
	"year": "2015",    
	"author": "Pete Docter"  
},  
{    
	"title": "Babysitting",    
	"year": "2013",    
	"author": "Philippe Lacheau and Nicolas Benamou"  
	}
]
```

Here’s how to retrieve this file from its URL and display each movie title in the console.

```
fetch(  "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/bpesquet/thejsway/master/resources/movies.json")  
.then(response => response.json()) // Access and return response's JSON content 
.then(movies => {    
	// Iterate on the movie array    
	movies.forEach(movie => {     
		// Display title of each movie      
		console.log(movie.title);    
});  
})  
.catch(err => {    
	console.error(err.message);  
});
```

The `json()` method of the HTTP `Response` object returns a promise that resolves with the result of parsing the response text as JSON. As such, the `movies` parameter of the second `then()` is a plain JavaScript array that can be iterated upon.




