An _object_ in programming is an _entity that has properties_. Each property defines a characteristic of the object. A property can be a piece of information associated with the object (the color of the pen) or an action (the pen’s ability to write).

_Object-oriented programming_ (OOP for short) is a way to write programs using objects. When using OOP, you write, create, and modify objects, and the objects make up your program.
OOP changes the way a program is written and organized.

Like many other languages, JavaScript supports programming with objects. It provides a number of predefined objects while also letting you create your own.

Eg. 
```javascript
const pen = { 
type: "ballpoint", 
color: "blue", 
brand: "Bic" 
};
```

As stated earlier, a JavaScript object can be created by simply setting its properties within a pair of curly braces: `{...}`. Each property is a key/value pair. This is called an _object literal_. 
> The semicolon `;` after the closing brace is optional, but it’s safer to add it anyway.

The above code defines a variable named `pen` whose value is an object: you can therefore say `pen` is an object. This object has three properties: `type`, `color` and `brand`. Each property has a name and a value and is followed by a comma `,` (except the last one).

After creating an object, you can access the value of its properties using _dot notation_ such as `myObject.myProperty`.

Accessing an object’s property is an expression that produces a value. Such an _expression_ can be included in more complex ones. For example, here’s how to show our pen properties in one statement.

```javascript
const pen = {
  type: "ballpoint",
  color: "blue",
  brand: "Bic"
};  

console.log(`I write with a ${pen.color} ${pen.brand} ${pen.type} pen`);
```

Once an object is created, you can change the value of its properties with the syntax _myObject.myProperty = newValue_.

JavaScript even offers the ability to dynamically add new properties to an already created object.

```javascript
const pen = {
  type: "ballpoint",
  color: "blue",
  brand: "Bic"
};  

pen.price = "2.5"; // Set the pen price property  

console.log(`My pen costs ${pen.price}`);
```

---

```javascript
const aurora = {
  name: "Aurora",
  health: 150,
  strength: 25,
  // Return the character description

  function describe(character) {
	  return `${character.name} has ${character.health} health points and     ${character.strength} as strength`;
}
}; 

console.log(describe(aurora));
```

The `describe()` function takes a `character` object as a parameter. It accesses that object’s properties to create a description string. Below is an alternative approach, using a `describe()` property inside the object.
```javascript
// Return the character description
  describe() {
    return `${this.name} has ${this.health} health points and ${this
      .strength} as strength`;
  }
};  

console.log(aurora.describe());
```

Now our object has a new property available to it: `describe()`. The value of this property is a function that returns a textual description of the object. The execution result is exactly the same as before.

An object property whose value is a function is called a _method_. Methods are used to define _actions_ for an object. A method adds some _behavior_ to an object.

To show the character description, we use the `aurora.describe()` expression instead of `describe(aurora)`. It makes a crucial difference:

- `describe(aurora)` calls the `describe()` function with the `aurora` object as an argument. The function is external to the object. This is an example of _procedural_ programming.
- `aurora.describe()` calls the `describe()` function on the `aurora` object. The function is one of the object’s properties: it is a method. This is an example of _object-oriented_ programming.

To call a method named `myMethod()` on an object `myObject`, the syntax is `myObject.myMethod()`.

> Remember the parentheses, even if empty, when calling a method!

- this keyword : This is automatically set by JavaScript inside a method and represents _the object on which the method was called_. In this case, it’s `aurora`.  The `describe()` method doesn’t take any parameters. It uses `this` to access the properties of the object on which it is called.


The JavaScript language has many predefined objects serving various purposes. We have already encountered some of them:

- The console object gives access to the environment `console`. `console.log()` is actually a method call.
    
- The `Math` object contains many mathematical properties. For example, `Math.PI` returns an approximate value of the number π (Pi) and the `Math.random()` function returns a random number between 0 and 1.