In this section, we’ll start with an example program and improve it little by little, without adding any new functionality. This important programming task is called _refactoring_.

Our initial program is about the recent Batman movies. The data comes in the form of an array of objects, with each object describing a movie.

```javascript
const movieList = [
  {
    title: "Batman",
    year: 1989,
    director: "Tim Burton",
    imdbRating: 7.6
  },
  {
    title: "Batman Returns",
    year: 1992,
    director: "Tim Burton",
    imdbRating: 7.0
  },
  {

    title: "Batman Forever",

    year: 1995,

    director: "Joel Schumacher",

    imdbRating: 5.4

  },
  {

    title: "Batman & Robin",

    year: 1997,

    director: "Joel Schumacher",

    imdbRating: 3.7

  },
  {

    title: "Batman Begins",

    year: 2005,

    director: "Christopher Nolan",

    imdbRating: 8.3

  },
  {

    title: "The Dark Knight",

    year: 2008,

    director: "Christopher Nolan",

    imdbRating: 9.0

  },
  {

    title: "The Dark Knight Rises",

    year: 2012,

    director: "Christopher Nolan",

    imdbRating: 8.5

  }
];
```

And here is the complete program that uses this data to show some results about the movies.

```javascript
// Get movie titles

const titles = [];

for (const movie of movieList) {

  titles.push(movie.title);

}

console.log(titles);

  

// Count movies by Christopher Nolan

const nolanMovieList = [];

for (const movie of movieList) {

  if (movie.director === "Christopher Nolan") {

    nolanMovieList.push(movie);

  }

}

console.log('There are ' + nolanMovieList.length + ' Christopher Nolan movies in the list.');

  

// Get titles of movies with an IMDB rating greater or equal to 7.5

const bestTitles = [];

for (const movie of movieList) {

  if (movie.imdbRating >= 7.5) {

    bestTitles.push(movie.title);

  }

}

console.log(bestTitles);

  

// Compute average movie rating of Christopher Nolan's movies

let ratingSum = 0;

let averageRating = 0;

for (const movie of nolanMovieList) {

  ratingSum += movie.imdbRating;

}

averageRating = ratingSum / nolanMovieList.length;

console.log(averageRating);
```

The JavaScript language is full of paradoxes. It has famously been invented in ten days and is now enjoying popularity almost unique in programming history. Its syntax borrows heavily from mainstream imperative languages like C or Java, but its design principles are closer to functional languages like Scheme.

JavaScript’s multi-paradigm nature means you can write imperative, object-oriented, or functional code, choosing the right tool for the job and leveraging your previous programming experience. As always, diversity is a source of flexibility and ultimately a strength.

## Imperative programming

The previous program is an example of what is called _imperative programming_. In this paradigm, the programmer gives orders to the computer through a series of statements that modify the program state. Imperative programming focuses on describing how a program operates. 

The concept of state is an important one. The _state_ of a program is the value of its _global variables_ (variables accessible everywhere in the code) at a given time. In our example, the values of `movieList`, `titles`, `nolanMovieCount`, `bestTitles`, `ratingSum` and `averageRating` form the state of the program. Any assignment to one of these variables is a state change, often called a _mutation_.

In imperative programming, the state can be modified anywhere in the source code. This is convenient, but can also lead to nasty bugs and maintenance headaches. As a program grows in size and complexity, it becomes easier for the programmer to mutate a part of the state by mistake and harder to monitor state modifications.

## Limiting mutations with `const` variables

In order to decrease the risk of accidental state mutation, a first step is to favor `const` over `let` whenever applicable for variable declarations. A variable declared with the `const` keyword cannot be further reassigned. Array and object content can still be mutated, though. Check the following code for details.

```javascript
const n = 10;

const fruit = "Banana";

const obj = {

  myProp: 2

};

const animals = ["Elephant", "Turtle"];

  

obj.myProp = 3; // Mutating a property is OK even for a const object

obj.myOtherProp = "abc"; // Adding a new property is OK even for a const object

animals.push("Gorilla"); // Updating content is OK even for a const array

  

n++; // Illegal

fruit = "orange"; // Illegal

obj = {}; // Illegal

animals = ["Bee"]; // Illegal
```

Executing the above code results in errors starting from line 12.

```
SyntaxError: /usercode/index.js: "n" is read-only
```

In lines 12-15, we are trying to reassign the `const` variables and it is not allowed.

## Splitting the program into functions

Another solution is to split the source code into subroutines called procedures or _functions_. This approach is called _procedural programming_ and has the benefit of transforming some variables into _local variables_, which are only visible in the subroutine code.

Let’s try to introduce some functions in our code.
```javascript
// Get movie titles

const titles = () => {

  const titles = [];

  for (const movie of movieList) {

    titles.push(movie.title);

  }

  return titles;

};

  

const nolanMovieList = [];

  

// Get movies by Christopher Nolan

const nolanMovies = () => {

  for (const movie of movieList) {

    if (movie.director === "Christopher Nolan") {

      nolanMovieList.push(movie);

    }

  }

};

  

// Get titles of movies with an IMDB rating greater or equal to 7.5

const bestTitles = () => {

  const bestTitles = [];

  for (const movie of movieList) {

    if (movie.imdbRating >= 7.5) {

      bestTitles.push(movie.title);

    }

  }

  return bestTitles;

};
```

The state of our program is now limited to two variables: `movieList` and `nolanMovieList` (the latter being necessary in functions `nolanMovies()` and `averageNolanRating()`). The other variables are now local to the functions they are used into, which limits the possibility of an accidental state mutation.

Also, this version of the program is easier to understand than the previous one. Functions with appropriate names help describe a program’s behavior. Comments are now less necessary than before.

# Pure Functions
A _pure function_ is a function that has the following characteristics:
- Its outputs depend solely on its inputs
- It has no side effect

A _side effect_ is a change in program state or an interaction with the outside world. A database access or a `console.log()` statement are examples of side effects.

Given the same data, a pure function will always produce the same result. By design, a pure function is independent from the program state and must not access it. Such a function must accept _parameters_ in order to do something useful. The only way for a function without parameters to be pure is to return a constant value.

## Use of pure function

Pure functions are easier to understand, combine together, and debug: contrary to their impure counterparts, there’s no need to look outside the function body to reason about it. Still, a number of side effects are necessary for any program, like showing output to the user or updating a database. In functional programming, the name of the game is to create those side effects only in some dedicated and clearly identified parts of the program. The rest of the code should be written as pure functions. Let’s refactor our example code to introduce pure functions.

```javascript
// Get movie titles

const titles = movies => {

  const titles = [];

  for (const movie of movies) {

    titles.push(movie.title);

  }

  return titles;

};

  

// Get movies by Christopher Nolan

const nolanMovies = movies => {

  const nolanMovies = [];

  for (const movie of movies) {

    if (movie.director === "Christopher Nolan") {

      nolanMovies.push(movie);

    }

  }

  return nolanMovies;

};

  

// Get titles of movies with an IMDB rating greater or equal to 7.5

const bestTitles = movies => {

  const bestTitles = [];

  for (const movie of movies) {

    if (movie.imdbRating >= 7.5) {

      bestTitles.push(movie.title);

    }

  }

  return bestTitles;

};

  

// Compute average rating of a movie list

const averageRating = movies => {

  let ratingSum = 0;

  for (const movie of movies) {

    ratingSum += movie.imdbRating;

  }

  return ratingSum / movies.length;

};
```

Since we only do refactoring, the program output is still the same. The program state (`movieList` and `nolanMovieList`) hasn’t changed. However, all our functions are now pure; instead of accessing the state, they use parameters to achieve their desired behavior. As an added benefit, the function `averageRating()` can now compute the average rating of any movie list; it has become more _generic_. 

# Array Operations
Functional programming is about writing programs by combining functions expressing what the program should do, rather than how to do it.

## The `map()` method
The `map()` method takes an array as a parameter and creates a new array with the results of calling a provided function on every element in this array. A typical use of `map()` is to replace a loop for array traversal. Let’s see the `map()` function in action.

```javascript
const numbers = [1, 5, 10, 15];

// The associated function multiply each array number by 2

const doubles = numbers.map(x => x * 2);

console.log(numbers); // [1, 5, 10, 15] (no change)

console.log(doubles); // [2, 10, 20, 30]
```

## The `filter()` method
The `filter()` method offers a way to test every element of an array against a provided function. Only elements that pass this test are added to the returned array.

```javascript
const numbers = [1, 5, 10, 15];

// Keep only the number greater than or equal to 10

const bigOnes = numbers.filter(x => x >= 10);

  

console.log(numbers); // [1, 5, 10, 15] (no change)

console.log(bigOnes); // [10, 15]
```

## The `reduce()` method
The `reduce()` method applies a provided function to each array element in order to reduce it to one value. This method is typically used to perform calculations on an array.

```javascript
const numbers = [1, 5, 10, 15];

// Compute the sum of array elements

const sum = numbers.reduce((acc, value) => acc + value, 0);

  

console.log(numbers); // [1, 5, 10, 15] (no change)

console.log(sum);     // 31
```

The `reduce()` method can take several parameters:

- The first one is the function associated to `reduce()` and called for each array element. It takes two parameters: the first is an _accumulator_ which contains the accumulated value previously returned by the last invocation of the function. The other function parameter is the array element.
    
- The second one is the initial value of the accumulator (often 0).

# Higher Order Functions
We say that functions are _first-class citizens_ in JavaScript, which means that they are treated equally to other types. Thanks to their first-class citizenry, functions can be combined together, rendering programs even more expressive and enabling a truly functional programming style. A function that takes another function as a parameter or returns another function is called a _higher-order function_. 

Check out this final version of our example program.

```javascript
const titles = movies => movies.map(movie => movie.title);

const byNolan = movie => movie.director === "Christopher Nolan";

const filter = (movies, func) => movies.filter(func);

const goodRating = movie => movie.imdbRating >= 7.5;

const ratings = movies => movies.map(movie => movie.imdbRating);

const average = array => array.reduce((sum, value) => sum + value, 0) / array.length;

  

console.log(titles(movieList));

const nolanMovieList = filter(movieList, byNolan);

console.log(nolanMovieList.length);

console.log(titles(filter(movieList, goodRating)));

console.log(average(ratings(nolanMovieList)));
```

We have defined helper functions that we combine to achieve the desired behavior. Since it takes the filtering function as a parameter, our own `filter()` function is an example of a higher-order function.



